---
title: 'Start Here'
date: 2023-08-01
permalink: /posts/2023/08/blog-post-1/
---

I share some of my motivations for creating my personal website here

## The Journey to Creating My Personal Website

I wanted to share some intentions I have behind creating this website. As of right now, I don’t know how much time I plan spend on this website, but I wanted to list some clear goals to keep me grounded in the right mindset. 

**Documenting Personal Growth and Learning:**
I intend to document some of the career insights, tools, and skills, as well as my attempts to learn them. I might also share some class notes I take - I pay money to attend college classes, might as well try not to forget everything. 

**Sharing Knowledge from Personal Projects:**
It seems like personal projects are a great way to demonstrate skill and passion. Why not motivate myself to start some by creating a website to document what I learn. I’m also trying to practice self-promotion and sharing my projects will be a great way to do so. 

**Creating a Space for Self-Reflection:**
Sometimes it easy to get so busy with your life that you forget to reflect on your long-term goals. On the other hand, I also have a tendency to spend a lot of time reflecting on random thoughts so I might as well share some insights I find interesting. 

**Scrutinizing Beliefs and Remaining Open to Change:**
I have a tendency to see the pros and cons of everything, but it makes me struggle to form opinions. By meticulously examining my beliefs, solidifying them through writing, and sharing them openly, I want to gather more confidence to form and defend thoughtful opinions.

Lastly, I don’t want this website to be a source of personal stress - so please forgive me because this website will always remain a work in progress. Hope you come across something interesting!

